Tracking NN training [WIP] (#249)
ploomber/sklearn-evaluation: docs/comparison/nn_tracking.md

```

```{code-cell} ipython3
!python3 -m pip install tensorflow --quiet
```

```{code-cell} ipython3
from keras.models import Sequential
from keras.layers import Dense
from keras import optimizers
```

```{code-cell} ipython3
hidden_units=100
learning_rate=0.01
hidden_layer_act='tanh'
output_layer_act='sigmoid'
no_epochs=100
```

```{code-cell} ipython3
model = Sequential()
model.add(Dense(hidden_units, input_dim=10, activation=hidden_layer_act))
model.add(Dense(hidden_units, activation=hidden_layer_act))
model.add(Dense(1, activation=output_layer_act))
```

```{code-cell} ipython3
sgd=optimizers.SGD(lr=learning_rate)
model.compile(loss='binary_crossentropy',optimizer=sgd, metrics=['acc'])
```

```{code-cell} ipython3
<<<<<<< HEAD
<<<<<<< HEAD
history = model.fit(X_train, y_train, epochs=no_epochs, batch_size=len(X_train),  verbose=0)
=======
history = model.fit(X_train, y_train, epochs=no_epochs, batch_size=len(X_train),  verbose=1)
>>>>>>> c861488 (Initial)
=======
history = model.fit(X_train, y_train, epochs=no_epochs, batch_size=len(X_train),  verbose=0)
>>>>>>> fe9a4c5 (verbose)
```

```{code-cell} ipython3
model.summary()
```

```{code-cell} ipython3

> <<<<<<< HEAD

Reviewer: I think you might have a conflict here

---
jupytext:
  text_representation:
    extension: .md
    format_name: myst
    format_version: 0.13
    jupytext_version: 1.14.1
kernelspec:
  display_name: Python 3 (ipykernel)
  language: python
  name: python3
---

> # Real-time tracking of Neural Network training

Reviewer 2: let's make this shorter:

```suggestion
# Real-time tracking
```

SQLiteTracker provides a powerful and flexible way to track computational (e.g., Machine Learning) experiments using a SQLite database.

> In this tutorial we demonstrate training a small network on the Fashion MNIST dataset and tracking the training metrics in realtime. We would also see how you can query the tracked metrics while training is going on, and visualise the metrics vs epoch plots.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This tutorial demonstrates training a small network on the Fashion MNIST dataset and tracking the training and validation metrics in real-time. We would also see how you can query the tracked metrics while training is ongoing and visualize the metrics vs. epoch plots.
```

+++

## Create the experiment tracker

```{code-cell} ipython3
from pathlib import Path
from sklearn_evaluation import SQLiteTracker

db = Path('nn_experiments.db')

if db.exists():

>     db.unlink()

Reviewer 2: let's put this in a cell above and add the `:hide-cell:` tag, so it doesn't show by default https://jupyterbook.org/en/stable/interactive/hiding.html#hide-entire-code-cells

    
    def on_epoch_end(self, epoch, logs=None):
        loss.append(logs["loss"])
        val_loss.append(logs["val_loss"])
        accuracy.append(logs["accuracy"])
        val_accuracy.append(logs["val_accuracy"])
        tracker.upsert(uuid, {"loss": loss, 
                              "accuracy": accuracy, 
                              "val_loss": val_loss, 
                              "val_accuracy": val_accuracy}
                      )
```

```{code-cell} ipython3
model = tf.keras.Sequential([
    tf.keras.layers.Flatten(input_shape=(28, 28)),
    tf.keras.layers.Dense(128, activation='relu'),
    tf.keras.layers.Dense(10)
])
```

```{code-cell} ipython3
model.compile(optimizer='adam',
              loss=tf.keras.losses.SparseCategoricalCrossentropy(from_logits=True),
              metrics=['accuracy']
             )
```

```{code-cell} ipython3
epoch_count = 10
history = model.fit(train_images, 
                    train_labels, 
                    validation_data=(val_images, val_labels), 
                    epochs=epoch_count, 
                    verbose=0, 
                    callbacks=[TrackLossandAccuracyCallback()])
```

## Track metrics while training

> While the training is going on, you may visualise the metrics plot by opening another terminal / notebook and run the below steps.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
While the training is ongoing, you may visualize the metrics plot by opening another terminal/notebook and running the steps below.
```

+++

Query the experiement with SQL

```{code-cell} ipython3
results = tracker.query("""
SELECT
    uuid,
    json_extract(parameters, '$.accuracy') as accuracy,
    json_extract(parameters, '$.loss') as loss,
    json_extract(parameters, '$.val_accuracy') as val_accuracy,
    json_extract(parameters, '$.val_loss') as val_loss
    FROM experiments
""")
```

> Extract and plot relevant metrics against epcohs

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Extract and plot relevant metrics against epochs:
```
